---
title: Branches
permalink: tools/branches
layout: tools
categories: tools
active: tools
---

We use [Vincent Driessen's Git branching model](http://nvie.com/posts/a-successful-git-branching-model/) in our workflow. The model specifies several different types of branches:

- Main branch

  We use `master` as our main branch. This is the branch that is deployed to production environments. Code should only be merged into the `master` branch as part of a production deployment, once it has been finished, reviewed, tested internally and externally, and approved for release.

  While we typically deploy from HEAD of master, we should always make sure that the version that is being deployed is tagged.  See the 'Release branches' and 'Tags' section.

- Next release branch

  Our next release branch is `develop`. Code is merged into this branch after a code review. Our staging environments usually contain the code from the `develop` branch.

- Feature branches

  We use feature branches for our normal day to day work and consider every change we make to be a feature itself or a part of a feature. Ideally, all code changes should be committed on feature branches. Since all of our work is tied to tickets in our project management system, we usually create a feature branch for each ticket we work on. Feature branches are created from `develop` and merged back into `develop` after a code review. In rare cases, it is convenient to create a feature branch from `develop` and then create individual ticket branches from that in order to split up a big chunk of work into smaller ones for easy code reviews. If a feature branch is being merged in manually, you should use `--no-ff` to force git to keep a record of the feature being merged in. The naming convention for feature branches is the ticket reference followed by a short dash separated description of the feature, e.g. `MB-49-git-standards`.

- Release branches

  Release branches are temporary branches that we use during production deployments. These branches are created from `develop` and merged into `master`. It is critical to use `--no-ff` when merging a release branch in order to keep a log of when a release has been merged in. Our naming convention for release branches is `release/<version>`. For Magento sites, we use the date of the release as the version in the `yyyy.mm.dd` format. Finally, if making more than one release on the same day, append a `-n` to the release version, for example `release/2014.02.13-2`.

- Hotfix branches

  We only use hotfix branches when working on critical problems that are found on production environments.  A pull request should still be created and reviewed before being deployed. Hotfix branches are created from `master` and merged back into `master`. The naming scheme is similar to the approach used for feature branches except that the branch name is prepended by `hotfix/`, e.g. `hotfix/MB-11-incorrect-colour`.

  Once the hotfix is complete, please make sure that you also create a new tag for a release before deploying.  This is so we can always be sure what code has been deployed to the site as it's not obvious when looking through tags if `MB-11-incorrect-colour` is a previous release or not.   Without this it would be hard to know what to rollback to.


In practice, we use [git-flow](https://github.com/nvie/gitflow) to manage the branching model.
